[♪♪♪]
[WHISTLING]
Jeannie.
Jeannie, come on out.
Good morning, master.
Ah, good morning, Jeannie.
Oh, my, you look handsome
this morning.
[CHUCKLING]
Thank you.
I'd like to ask
a favor of you.
Oh, thank you, master.
You haven't heard what it is.
Oh, it does not matter.
You never give me a chance
to do anything for you.
Oh, well, this is not
exactly for me.
It's for Roger.
Uh, he's got a birthday
coming up next week,
and I wanna give him
a surprise party.
Oh, I love surprises.
[CHUCKLING]
Yeah. Yeah, I know.
I've invited a few
of his friends over here,
and I'll keep him at the base
just as long as possible, yeah.
I don't want him
to suspect anything.
Wh-what is it you want me
to do, master?
Well, I haven't had any time
to plan for the party.
I-- I want something different,
you know.
Oh, we used to have
some wonderful parties
in the old days.
[CHUCKLING]
Yeah, I'll bet you did.
So I was wondering
if you could come up
with an idea for the party.
Oh, yes!
[GASPS]
I remember a party
that Nero gave.
Yeah--? Well, no, no.
I don't want anything
quite that extravagant.
[GROWLS]
[♪♪♪]
[DOORBELL RINGS]
Hi, there, fella.
Oh!
[TIGER GROWLS]
[♪♪♪]
Hey, you're a mean-looking
thing, aren't ya?
[GROWLS]
You're having
a circus?
[CHUCKLING]
Oh, Dr. Bellows.
Would you mind
telling me
what that's
doing here, major?
Yes, I suppose
it does seem strange.
No, no.
Doesn't everyone have
a tiger in his living room?
Well, you see,
Roger's having a--
He has a birthday
coming up,
and I wanted to do
something special for him.
Feed him
to the tiger?
[CHUCKLING]
Oh, no.
No, no. You see, uh--
[CHUCKLES]
Well, I-- I just want
to give him a surprise party,
something like, uh...
Well, like Nero
used to do, you know.
I not only don't know,
I'm sorry I asked.
General Peterson wants
to see you and Major Healey
in the computer room
at 11:00.
Yes, sir.
And, uh...
come alone.
Yes, sir.
[GROWLING]
[STAMMERS]
Jeannie.
Jeannie!
Jeannie, where are ya?
Come on.
Jean-- Oh!
[LAUGHING]
Would you mind, please?
Oh.
Thanks.
Well, thank you.
Thank you very much.
I-- I think we'd better
think of something
a little simpler.
Oh, yes, master.
Oh, it must be wonderful
to have someone give you
a birthday party.
Well, you should know.
You must have had hundreds--
Thousands of 'em.
Oh, I have never had
a birthday party, master.
You haven't had--?
Well, now, how can that be?
I do not know
when my birthday is.
Well, I think that's terrible.
Well, it is a strange feeling
not to know when you were born.
It usually
does not bother me,
but when I see someone else
is having a birthday, I...
I do wish I knew
when mine was.
I'll tell you what.
Why don't you celebrate
Roger's birthday with him.
We'll make that
your birthday party.
Oh, no, thank you,
master.
It would not be
the same thing.
I would like to have a birthday
of my very own. Heh.
Yeah.
Oh, do not worry
about it.
Forget I ever
mentioned--
No, I'm not gonna
forget about it.
I'm gonna find out
when your birthday is.
How?
Uh...
You go home
and ask your mother.
[LAUGHING]
Oh.
Well, it was
so long ago, master.
She may have forgotten.
Believe me, mothers
always remember birthdays.
Do you really think so?
Yes. Yes.
I'll, uh, tell you
what you do.
You go and find out
when your birthday is,
you come back and tell me,
and I'll give you
the biggest
and best birthday party
anybody ever saw
in Cocoa Beach.
Oh! You're wonderful,
master.
[LAUGHING]
Oh, I am so happy.
Now, I'm going to be
just like everybody else.
[CHUCKLING]
Yes. Well, maybe.
Have a good trip.
Oh, thank you, master.
Oh, goodbye, master.
Goodbye.
[SHRIEKS]
[♪♪♪]
[ROGER SIGHS]
Hi, Tony.
Oh, hi, Roge.
Where's, uh...?
Where's Jeannie?
Jeannie? Oh, she went home
to her mother.
Home to her mother?
You two quarrel?
[CHUCKLING]
No, no.
She went home to find out
when her birthday was.
You mean,
she doesn't know?
No.
No. When she gets back
and tells me,
I'm gonna give her
a birthday party
she'll never forget.
You wanna help me?
Okay, you pay for the candles,
I'll pay for the party.
Heh, heh.
[KNOCKING ON DOOR]
Come in.
Well, good morning,
gentlemen.
Morning, sir.
Good morning, sir.
Well, if, uh,
you gentlemen are ready,
General Peterson's
waiting.
Would you mind telling me
what this is all about, sir?
Not at all.
General Peterson wants you
to meet ERIC.
ERIC?
You mean,
this whole room is ERIC?
Electronic
Rapid Input Computer.
This is the fastest
computing machine in existence.
It can figure out the answer
to any question you put to it.
I wonder if it can tell me
about that redhead
I have a date with
Saturday night?
BELLOWS:
Don't press your luck.
That machine cost
5 million dollars.
I just wanted you both
to be aware it's available
to help you solve
any problems you may run into.
Here's the control panel.
Here's the manual.
Oh, thank you, sir. I'm sure
ERIC's gonna be a great help.
If you need this machine,
just let me know.
I'll have Captain Reynolds
program it for you.
Yes, sir.
Five million dollars.
How 'bout that, huh?
[WHISTLES]
Ahhh.
You little devil.
Ho, ho, ho.
I bet you could tell me
about that redhead
I have a date with, huh?
You know, I've been
thinking about this.
Now, if ERIC could give us
the ratios on this input chart,
we could save
about a week's work.
Well, what'll
they think of next?
Master, I am back.
Oh, hi, Jeannie.
Hi, Jeannie.
Did you have
a nice trip?
Mm, nice trip,
master.
Did you see
your mother?
Yes, master.
How is she?
Oh, she's fine,
thank you.
Did you find out
the day you were born?
My mother says I was born
in February, master.
February?
You're an Aquarius.
Uh, what--?
What day in February?
It does not matter,
master.
My father says
I was born in December.
He remembers the icicles
hanging from the roof.
My sister says
it was in June
because she remembers
picking roses to bring to me.
Our next-door neighbor
swears it was in October.
Oh, it was so long ago,
nobody remembers
what month it was.
You mean, there--
There's no clue at all?
Well, all anyone is sure of
is that the planet Neptune
was in Scorpio
when I was born.
[CHUCKLES]
Neptune was in what?
Those are astrological signs.
Uh, weren't there
any records kept?
Records?
Yeah, well, usually
when a child is born,
there's some kind
of a record kept.
Uh, wasn't there the equivalent
of a Hall of Records?
Of course.
I remember now.
The Emperor Caligula
had everything removed
to the courthouse
of ancient Rome.
Oh, it will be there.
Oh, you are brilliant, master.
I will be right back.
You know, I'm generally
not too fond of genies,
but, uh-- Whew!
--she's an exception.
[CHUCKLES]
[♪♪♪]
Good evening, master.
Good evening, Jeannie.
Say, I was beginning
to worry about you.
Did you find the records?
No, master.
The Hall of Records
burned down
during the great fire
of 64 when Rome burned.
Oh, while Nero fiddled.
How did you know that?
Well, never mind.
Say, Jeannie,
I'll tell you what.
Why don't we, um--?
Why don't we just pick a day
and celebrate that
as your birthday, hm?
No, master.
I want
my own birthday.
Yeah, well, I know, but when
we can't find out what it is,
you just have to pick
the next best thing.
[CHUCKLES]
No, master.
I do not want
the next best thing.
I-- I want
the best thing.
Yes, I know, but--
My own birthday.
Jeannie, look.
Well, I--
I just can't get it
for you, that's all.
It's humanly impossible.
You are my master.
Yes.
If you cared for me,
you would find
my birthday.
Yeah, but how?
Oh, you will think
of something.
Good night, master.
[CHUCKLES NERVOUSLY]
How do I get myself
into these things?
[KNOCKING ON DOOR]
Come in!
Hi.
Oh, hi, Tony.
What brings you here?
I need your help.
Oh, my help?
What, is anything wrong?
Yeah. Jeannie couldn't find
the records on her birthday.
Oh, that's--
That's too bad, Tony.
She expects me to find out
when her birthday was.
It was 2000 years ago.
Well, you came
to the right man for advice.
You mean,
you know what to do?
'Course I do.
What?
Lie to her.
Pick a day out of a hat. She'll
never know the difference.
I couldn't do that.
Well, why not?
It wouldn't be right.
Well, if your conscience
bothers you, uh,
just tell her you
picked a day out of a hat.
I already did.
I gave her your birthday.
What did she say?
Well, she wants
her own birthday.
Now, come on.
Help me, will you?
Help you pick out a day
that happened 2000 years ago?
What do you think I am? ERIC?
[SNAPS FINGERS]
That's it.
What's it? I'm ERIC?
No, ERIC's gonna help me
solve the problem.
What are you
talking about?
I mean, ERIC only operates
if you feed it information,
and we don't have any.
Sure we do. Sure we do.
We know that, uh,
Neptune was in what, uh--?
What--? What--?
Scorpio?
Was in Scorpio
the day she was born.
What kind of clue is that?
Well, it's the only one
we've got.
Neptune's been in Scorpio
millions of times.
Well, once, maybe.
All right, but we know she
was born about 2000 years ago.
That narrows it down.
Oh...
Yeah. And if General Peterson
catches us fooling around
with that machine,
he's gonna narrow us down.
It's the only way we're gonna
find that date. You with me?
Okay, I'm with you.
Boy.
Well, I guess
we sink together.
This is wax.
I know,
they're all wax.
[DOORBELL RINGS]
Good morning, Roge.
I'm afraid
you're gonna have
to sink without me.
What do you mean?
Can I come in?
Oh, sure,
come on in.
[SIGHS]
Boy, I couldn't sleep
at all last night.
I hate to tell you, but I
can't go through with this.
You can't go through
with what?
ERIC!
We get caught fooling
around with that thing,
we're gonna get
wiped out.
Believe me, Jeannie will
forget about her birthday.
I'm not so sure
about that.
I know women
better than you.
What's life and death today
will be forgotten tomorrow.
Yeah, well,
I hope you're right.
[SIGHS]
[YELPS]
What are you doing?
Oh, forgive me,
master,
but whenever I get unhappy,
my powers weaken.
Yeah, well--
[STAMMERS]
That vase
cost a lot of--
I paid a lot of money
for that.
Oh, do not worry,
master.
I will get you
another one.
What is that?
It's a Christmas present
for Dr. Bellows.
Oh, forgive me,
master.
Oh, boy.
Oh, if you could only find out
when my birthday is--
Yeah, well,
I'm afraid it happened
a long time ago, Jeannie.
We've run
into trouble.
What--?
What are you
doing?
Doing?
I-- I don't want to be rude
or anything, but, ahem,
one of your feet
is missing.
[YELPS]
What's happening?
TONY: What's happening?
Oh, whenever I am very unhappy,
I begin to vanish.
You vanish?
Vanish?
Yes.
Jeannie, you stop that
right now.
I cannot help it,
master.
Goodbye.
Goodbye?
Now, don't fade away.
This is your master talking.
I cannot help it,
master.
If I am unhappy,
I just...fade.
Well, you get happy,
and I mean it.
I mean, right now!
You think this is the right way
to handle this problem?
Oh, uh-- Yeah.
Yeah, you're absolutely right.
Let's think of happy things,
shall we?
Oh, yes, yes, master.
I do not want to vanish.
Yeah.
Now, um, what about
the picnic we had?
Oh, yes, that--
That was a lovely day.
Remember in the museum
when you found your slippers?
[LAUGHING]
Oh, yes!
I enjoyed that.
[LAUGHING]
Hey. Hey!
One of her feet's
back.
Hey, how
'bout that?
Oh!
Now, what about the time
when the, uh--
When I stuffed the Blue Djinn
in the vacuum cleaner,
and you got rid of him,
remember?
[LAUGHS]
Yes. Oh, that was funny.
I could never forget that,
master.
[CHUCKLING]
Yeah.
Hey, both her feet
are back.
Oh! Thank you, master.
Ha, ha.
You just keep thinking
happy thoughts, okay?
I will. I will.
Good girl. Who needs
a birthday anyway? Heh.
[CHUCKLES]
Oh, no!
Nice work, Roger.
Oh, I was only--
I can feel myself
vanishing again.
Hold on, Jeannie.
I'm afraid I cannot stay
if I do not know my birthday.
We're gonna find out
your birthday.
I-- I thought you said
there was no way.
Well-- Well, we have a way.
Yeah, it's-- It's known
as a suicide mission.
Jeannie, just hold on.
Give us a little time.
I will try, master.
Just think about the time--
Don't say a word.
I was only--
Not a word. Come on.
Can I ask you where we're going?
To see ERIC.
Can I say one word?
What's that?
Help.
[QUIETLY]
Wait-- Wait a minute.
Know what's gonna happen
to us if we get caught?
Don't think about it.
It's easy for you to say.
Roger,
I want you to stay out here
and warn me if anybody comes.
Yeah, I'll give you
two sharp whistles.
[WHISTLES TWICE]
Sharp, sharp.
[TWO WHISTLES]
[WHISPERS]
What is it?
I was just practicing.
[WHISTLES QUIETLY]
Sorry.
[♪♪♪]
[CLICKS]
[COMPUTER WHIRRING]
[TYPING]
Tony.
[YELPS]
What are you
doing in here?
What am I doing in here?
Will you hurry up?
You've been in here
over an hour.
Well, I'm almost through.
Do you know
what you're doing?
Yeah, I know
what I'm doing.
I just hope ERIC knows
what he's doing.
I'm feeding him
the information.
We ought to have
the answer in a minute.
If you ask me,
it looks stupid.
Huh?
[SHOUTING]
I said, if you ask me,
it looks stupid.
Would you go out
and guard the door?
Two sharp whistles.
[WHISTLES TWICE]
Right.
Two. Sharp.
Okay.
[WHISTLES ONCE]
[BLOWS SILENTLY]
Major Healey.
[BLOWS AIR]
Yes, sir.
Are you all right?
Oh, yes, sir.
It's a friend of mine
that I'm worried about.
Anyone I know?
Well, not exactly, sir.
You see, I have
a 15-year-old cousin,
and she fell in love
with the milkman.
'Course, the family made her
stop drinking milk altogether.
That became
a malnutrition problem.
Of course, we got--
Dr. Bellows?
Oh!
Well, I think
we've done it.
Do you?
Yes, yes.
Oh! Hello, Dr. Bellows.
What are you doing here, sir?
The question is:
what are you doing with
this machine, Major Nelson?
What machine, sir?
That machine.
Oh, ERIC.
I-- I think of him
as human.
[WHISTLES TWICE]
Thanks a lot, Roger.
You haven't answered
my question.
What question was that?
What are you doing--?
Oh, yes. I was feeding it
some information.
I'm trying to find
a certain date.
Yes, and if he doesn't
find the date,
a certain thing
he's got could disappear.
Oh, I see. You're
computing a launch date.
Yes, you might say that.
Is the machine being helpful?
I certainly hope so, sir.
Well, I think
that General Peterson
will be very pleased
that you're using it.
Yes, sir, he's gonna get
a real kick out of it.
[CHUCKLING]
You had no trouble
programming it?
No, sir.
Good.
Well, uh, I'll leave you
to your work.
Thank you, sir.
[TYPING RAPIDLY]
Oh, no. Uh, not now.
Wow!
You're getting
a readout.
Uh-- Yes.
May I see it?
Sir?
I said,
may I see it?
I don't think it'll be anything
you'd be interested in, sir.
Oh, I'm fascinated
by these machines.
May I?
Yeah, all right.
There you are.
No, no, no.
The entire slip.
Oh, yes.
You were born
in the year 64 B.C.
BOTH [IN UNISON]:
Sixty-four B.C.
What kind of data
is that?
Oh. Well, I--
I must have fed it
some wrong information.
Oh. It had a case
of indigestion.
Yes. Does it say
anything else?
Yes, it gives a birth date.
It does?
May I have the date, sir?
Major Nelson,
if you think ERIC
is a Chinese fortune cookie,
you're very much mistaken.
In the future, if you want
to use this machine,
Captain Reynolds
will program it for you.
Is that clear?
I'll hold those for--
I said,
is that clear?
Yes, yeah--
Uh, uh--
Would you mind
giving me the date, sir?
As a matter of fact,
I would.
Now, if you gentlemen are
through with your games.
Gotta do this
all over again.
Major Nelson!
What is it?
Yes, sir.
Did you understand
what I said?
Yes, sir.
Sorry, sir.
I had it in my hand.
I had the date
right in my hand.
Do you understand that?
We could've knocked Dr. Bellows
down and taken it away from him.
Oh, good thinking.
[CHUCKLING]
Yeah, that's great.
Master, I came
to say goodbye.
Goodbye?
You can't go, Jeannie.
Looks like she's
half-gone already.
Oh, I'm sorry, master,
but...when I am unhappy,
I just... Oh, I have
no control over this.
Remember when I found you
in the bottle on the beach,
and I opened it up
and you were so happy?
It is no use, master.
I am slipping away.
Remember the time I let you
drive my car? Remember?
Do not forget me,
master, please.
Major Nelson is using ERIC
to find out somebody's birthday?
I was there, sir.
Why would he do that?
I have no idea, general.
Maybe we should
ask ERIC.
What?
Oh, uh,
nothing, sir.
Oh, um,
this is the, um--
The date the machine
gave him.
He seemed most anxious
to have it.
Hm. My mother was born
on that day.
But, uh,
not in 64 B.C.
Sixty-four B.C.?
Yes, sir.
The person they were
looking up
was born in that year.
Sounds to me like ERIC
had a breakdown.
That's what they
tried to claim.
No, general, there's
something behind this.
For some reason, this date
is most important
to Major Nelson.
But he didn't say why?
Uh, no, sir.
I told him
to stay away from ERIC,
unless Captain Reynolds
was there
to program his questions.
I want you to rescind
that order.
But why, sir?
Let Major Nelson
use the machine
any time he wants to,
only he'll be watched.
That's an excellent idea, sir.
He's going to Alaska
for two weeks.
I'll tell him when he returns
that ERIC will be
available to him.
The next time the machine
gives him any information,
I want it sent directly to me.
I don't want Major Nelson
to see it.
Hm. Amazing.
What's amazing?
That it took
a 5-million-dollar computer
to catch Major Nelson.
Uh...moonlight ride
in the park.
A chocolate
ice-cream soda. Mm.
The-- The time
you suspended me
over the pit
of crocodiles.
That was funny.
[BOTH LAUGHING]
You remember the time you
blinked me to the South Pole?
[ALL LAUGHING]
You happy now?
No, master.
[GROANS]
I'm sorry I ever
had a birthday.
Jeannie, have I
ever lied to you?
Yes, master.
Yeah. Well, I'm gonna
make you a promise.
If you'll just hold on,
I'm gonna find your birthday,
your real birthday.
I will try, master.
Good girl. You just
pop back to your bottle,
and I'll see you tonight.
Yes, master.
What's the matter?
I'm losing my power.
You mean, you can't
get out of the office?
No.
Well, you
can't stay here.
You're not
government issue.
Oh, what should I do?
Huh? Oh, here.
Get-- Get into, uh...
Get in...here. In here.
Right in here.
Come on, come on.
I will try, master.
Come on.
BELLOWS:
Good afternoon, sergeant.
Are you feeling better? Good.
Jeannie.
Jeannie?
Where are you?
Here I am,
master.
Are you all right,
Jeannie?
I think so.
Good. You just stay
right there.
Everything's gonna be fine.
Dr. Bellows.
How are you?
Heh. Dr. Bellows.
[CHUCKLES]
Is your desk
all right?
Oh, yes, yes,
fine.
[CHUCKLING]
Yeah.
Well, you know,
a desk is a desk.
BELLOWS:
Yes.
Uh, I just came in to tell you
that when you return
from Alaska,
you can have free access
to ERIC again.
Oh, oh,
that's wonderful, sir.
You'll be leaving
in the morning, won't you?
Yes, yes.
BELLOWS:
They're painting my office,
so, uh, while you're gone,
if you don't mind,
I'll be using this office.
Oh, good, good.
[♪♪♪]
What are we going to do, master?
Well, we have to find out
when your birthday is
before Dr. Bellows moves in.
[DOOR OPENS]
Hi, Tony.
Hi, Roge.
Brought you a glass
of milk and a donut.
[CHUCKLING]
A glass of milk
and a donut?
What--? What for?
What for?
At a time like this, you
gotta keep up your strength.
[TONY CHUCKLES]
You're right.
Well, let's
get going.
ROGER:
Get going?
Where are we going?
To see ERIC.
Wait a minute.
Look, I hate to sound
like a pessimist,
but this whole thing
seems like a trap.
Well, it can't
be helped, Roger.
ERIC's our only chance.
And besides,
look at the kid.
She's-- She's
really fading away.
Good luck, master.
Thank you, Jeannie.
And Jeannie...
Yes?
Whenever it is,
happy birthday.
Oh...
Mm-ah.
[♪♪♪]